C# Programming guide: Top-level statements (#23234)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/programming-guide/main-and-command-args/top-level-statements.md

---

> title: "Top-level statements - C# Programming Guide"

Reviewer: The feature is also known as "simple programs" if I recall correctly. You may want to include this name for SEO purposes.

Author: Where did you see this name?

Author: The public messaging has been consistently to call this feature "top-level statements," and with "simple programs" showing up only in the Roslyn repo, I think using that as an alternate feature name would be unnecessarily confusing, but I'll follow the lead of the top-level statements tutorial and work in the phrase "simple programs" into the text.

Reviewer 2: "Top level statements" is the official name. The product team followed our lead here to avoid the use of "simple". The goal is that programs that use "top level statements" need not be "simple".  See [FeatherApp](https://github.com/featherhttp) for one example of possibilities.

description: Learn about top-level statements in C# 9 and later.
ms.date: 03/08/2021
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "C# language, top-level statements"
  - "C# language, Main method"
---
# Top-level statements (C# Programming Guide)

> Starting in C# 9, you don't have to explicitly include a `Main` method in a console application project. Instead, you can use the *top-level statements* feature to minimize the code you have to write. In this case, the compiler provides an implicit class and `Main` method entry point for the application.

Reviewer: I personally lean towards using main without backticks instead of `Main`. Because the method the compiler generates isn't called `Main`, but `<Main>$`.

Author: I think "implicit" clarifies the status of `Main`, but in this instance it will be clearer to repeat "implicit" directly before Main.

Reviewer: I don't think "implicit" resolves this. It could be implicit and called `Main`, but the compiler implementation decided it's called `<Main>$`.

And actually, from a compiler-point of view, it's not implicit at all (see discussion at https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/pull/48199), but it's okay to mention implicit for the purpose of this article I think?

> Starting in C# 9, you don't have to explicitly include a `Main` method in a console application project. Instead, you can use the *top-level statements* feature to minimize the code you have to write. In this case, the compiler implicitly provides a class and `Main` method entry point for the application.

Reviewer: Consider applying similar change to what @BillWagner suggested here. This aligns with the *IsImplicitlyDeclared* compiler API being false, and also aligns with the fact that these have `[CompilerGenerated]` attribute.

```suggestion
Starting in C# 9, you don't have to explicitly include a `Main` method in a console application project. Instead, you can use the *top-level statements* feature to minimize the code you have to write. In this case, the compiler generates a class and `Main` method entry point for the application.
```

Here's a *Program.cs* file that is a complete C# program in C# 9:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/top-level-statements-1/Program.cs":::

> Top-level statements let you write simple programs for small utilities such as Azure Functions and GitHub Actions. They also make it simpler for new C# programmers to get started learning and writing code.

Reviewer 2: This use of "simple programs" is fine because it does flow naturally with the concept. I like how you've done this Tom.

The following sections explain the rules on what you can and can't do with top-level statements.

## Only one top-level file

An application must have only one entry point, so a project can have only one file with top-level statements. Putting top-level statements in more than one file in a project results in the following compiler error:

> CS8802 Only one compilation unit can have top-level statements.

A project can have any number of additional source code files that don't have top-level statements.

## No other entry points

You can write a `Main` method explicitly, but it can't function as an entry point. The compiler issues the following warning:

> CS7022 The entry point of the program is global code; ignoring 'Main()' entry point.

> In a project with top-level statements, you can't use the [-main](../../language-reference/compiler-options/main-compiler-option.md) compiler option to select the entry point, even if the project has one or more `Main` methods.

Reviewer 2: Note for me, depending on how soon we merge this: I'm update the options section to use the new MSBuild properties rather than the `csc` spellings. I'll have to update his depending on the order of merging. See #22797 for the work in progress.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/top-level-statements-2/Program.cs":::

### `args` is available.

Top-level statements can reference the args variable, which contains any command-line arguments that were entered. The `args` variable is never null but has `Length` 0 if no command-line arguments were provided.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/top-level-statements-3/Program.cs":::

### `await` is available

You can call an async method by using `await`. For example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/top-level-statements-4/Program.cs":::

### The application can return an `int`

To return an `int` value when the application ends, use the `return` statement as you would in a `Main` method that returns an `int`. For example:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/top-level-statements-4/Program.cs":::

## Implicit `Main` method signature

The compiler generates an implicit `Main` method with a signature that depends on what code is found within the top-level statements.

| Top-level code contains| Implicit `Main` signature                    |
|------------------------|----------------------------------------------|

> | `await` and `return`   | `static async Task<int> Main(string[] args)` |

Reviewer: The name the compiler generates is `<Main>$`, not `Main`. If this shouldn't be pointed in this docs, I'd replace the second column with "Return type" and "is async" colums.

> | Top-level code contains| Implicit `Main` signature                    |

Reviewer 2: I like this table.  See my previous comment about the return value of `Main`. Adding this table there would be perfect.

Author: Adding a slightly modified table to both the return value and command-line args docs.

| `await`                | `static async Task Main(string[] args)`      |
| `return`               | `static int Main(string[] args)`             |

> | No `await` or `return` | `static void Main(string[] args)`            |

Reviewer: Not sure if this should be "nor"?

Author: Acrolinx doesn't like "nor" otherwise this could be neither ... nor.

## C# language specification

[!INCLUDE[CSharplangspec](~/includes/csharplangspec-md.md)]

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd add a link to the [top level statements speclet](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/proposals/csharp-9.0/top-level-statements). The link would be `~/_csharplang/proposals/csharp-9.0/top-level-statements.md`
